been thinking about how to review media. It is obviouslz a largely subjective thing, I thik trying to measure the quality of a piece of media is pretty futile, surely you can try to quantify things like graphics or competence of a written story or controlls of a character or game mechanics. But in the end engaging with a piece of art is incredibly individual process. 
From time to time I listen to the Pondering Spooky Tapes podcast, and they use as scale thats [ART<>COOL], I think I want to elaborate on that a bit changing things up a bit. And here I want to say that again that these terms are highly subjective, whats artful to one might be cool to another but I want to try to explain what those terms mean to me. Something thats artful elaborates on on mechanics in wazs that are visually or philosophically interesting for example, something thats cool exectues on its premise in a way tht makes you root for the artist.
Now I want to propse a third axis thats FUN, fun to me gives you enoyment of something seperate from its artfulness or coolness, you might not nessecarily enjoy somethings, but can appreciate that its cool, or artful in a way. And zou might enjoy something thats not really cool or artful.

So we end up with this triangle where you can place media. I'll demonstrate with some games.

Animal well to me was cool and artful but not very fun. Deltarune is fun and artful but rather uncool. Disco Elysium is Artful and Cool and Fun and would end up in the middle.

We can also do it with something like movies. 
ZARDOZ is artfull and fun. STAR WARS is fun and cool. Cannon movies would lean more towards cool and fun with a heavy tendence towards cool.

Anyway. I like thinking about this stuff. Ill attache a diagram, if I havent, scream at me.

BIKE NEWS

My bike fucking exploded, the chain broke and shaved off teeth from the pinion after making itself independent.
As of writing this, I am still stranded, but new parts are ordered. i got the bike from my uncle who seemed to have tinkered on it himself as I have been told by the bike shop guy that a hub transmission usually isnt paired with two front pinions.

DEEP SPACE 9

ok just because I am watching it as I am typing this, Keiko was trying to convince Rom to let Nog attend her classes and the camera just did a insane thing where it followed her leaving the bar and stopped at a scene of those Bajoran Terrorists discussing things, seamlessly. T his show is really impressive in all regards, it is very artful and cool and fun.



